docs: add canonical JSON-RPC migration guide under accessing-data (#26716)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/develop/accessing-data/json-rpc-migration.mdx

---
title: JSON-RPC Migration Guide
description: Choose between gRPC and GraphQL RPC when migrating from the deprecated JSON-RPC API. Includes a method mapping, decision criteria, and common migration gotchas.
keywords: [ json-rpc, migration, grpc, graphql, deprecation, sui rpc, json-rpc migration, sui rpc migration, replace json-rpc ]
---

<ImportContent source="json-rpc-deprecation" mode="snippet" />

JSON-RPC is deprecated and is planned for deactivation in July 2026. The two replacements are [gRPC](/develop/accessing-data/grpc) for full node access and transaction execution, and [GraphQL RPC](/develop/accessing-data/graphql/graphql-rpc) for indexed, filterable reads.

## Choose your replacement

You can use one API or both. Most exchanges and indexers end up using both: gRPC for the live data path and transaction submission, GraphQL for ad hoc queries, support tools, and joined reads.

> Use **gRPC** for:

Reviewer: It may be worth differentiating "fullnode gRPC" from "Archival Service" which is a gRPC service that offers unpruned point lookups, but not the rest of the fullnode RPC, and then also comparing that with GraphQL which offers a unified interface (unpruned lookups and also the rest of the API).

Author: Added callout lower on page

- Backend services, indexers, and exchange pipelines.

> - Transaction execution and signed transaction submission, through `TransactionExecutionService`.

Reviewer: There seems to be this reputation that GraphQL can't shake that it doesn't support transaction execution, which is not true. Could we either drop this line or introduce a section that states the things that work through both RPCs?

Author: Dropped

> - Streaming finalized checkpoints with `SubscriptionService.SubscribeCheckpoints`, which replaces JSON-RPC WebSocket subscriptions.

Reviewer: This is not 100% true, because people were primarily using subscriptions in JSON-RPC over events. Event and transaction subscriptions are coming shortly, but if we are saying that `SubscribeCheckpoints` can replace JSON-RPC WebSocket subscriptions, we may need to explain how (that you need to filter for events on the client side).

Author: Revised

- Low-latency point lookups against the current state and recent history of a full node, through `LedgerService` and `StateService`.

- Generated, typed clients in TypeScript, Go, Rust, Python, and other languages.

- Workloads where protocol overhead, message size, and tail latency matter.

Use **GraphQL RPC** for:

- Frontends, developer tools, scripts, and dynamic-language clients.

> - Indexed, filterable queries over historical transactions, events, objects, and balances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filterable queries over historical transactions, and events.

- Paginated queries over object and package history.

- Filtering over live objects by type.
```

- Queries that join multiple resources in a single request, such as an address with its owned objects, balances, and recent transactions.

> - Checkpoint-scoped reads where you want consistent results across a paginated query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consistent results pinned to the chain state at a specific checkpoint for queries that span multiple different types, or multiple pages.
```

Something like this to indicate that consistency works for pagination but also if you're just fetching multiple otherwise unrelated fields in a single request (or even across multiple requests)?

If you only need to read live state from a single full node, gRPC is usually enough. If you need cross-resource filtering, deep pagination, or want one request to return data assembled from several sources, GraphQL is usually a better fit. For deeper detail on when each API applies, see [What is gRPC](/develop/accessing-data/grpc/what-is-grpc) and [GraphQL RPC](/develop/accessing-data/graphql/graphql-rpc).

## Method mapping

The following table maps common JSON-RPC method families to their gRPC service and GraphQL equivalents. Method names on the gRPC side use the protobuf service in the [Sui Full Node gRPC reference](/references/fullnode-protocol). GraphQL equivalents reference the GraphQL field or field path on the schema. Use this table to plan the migration, then consult the linked references for the exact request and response shapes.

> | JSON-RPC method | gRPC service and operation | GraphQL field |

Reviewer: For the GraphQL fields here, it would be useful to provide the type name and the field name, like `Query.checkpoint`, or `Checkpoint.networkTotalTransactions`.

Author: Revised

| --- | --- | --- |
| `sui_getCheckpoint`, `sui_getLatestCheckpointSequenceNumber` | `LedgerService.GetCheckpoint` | `checkpoint` |
| `sui_getCheckpoints` | No paginated gRPC list. Use `LedgerService.GetCheckpoint` for point lookups, or `SubscriptionService.SubscribeCheckpoints` for an ordered stream, depending on your use case. | `checkpoints` |
| `sui_getTransactionBlock` | `LedgerService.GetTransaction` | `transaction` |
| `sui_multiGetTransactionBlocks` | `LedgerService.BatchGetTransactions` | `multiGetTransactions` |
| `sui_getTotalTransactionBlocks` | `LedgerService.GetCheckpoint` on the latest or target checkpoint, then read `summary.total_network_transactions` | `checkpoint.networkTotalTransactions` |
| `sui_getObject`, `sui_tryGetPastObject` | `LedgerService.GetObject` (current state and recent history) | `object` |
| `sui_multiGetObjects` | `LedgerService.BatchGetObjects` | `multiGetObjects` |
| `suix_getBalance`, `suix_getAllBalances` | `StateService.GetBalance`, `StateService.ListBalances` | `address.balance`, `address.balances` |

> | `suix_getCoins`, `suix_getAllCoins` | `StateService.ListOwnedObjects` filtered by `Coin<T>` type | `address.objects(filter: { type: "0x2::coin::Coin<...>" })` |

Reviewer: Note that for GraphQL (and I think also gRPC) you can specify a type filter of `0x2::coin::Coin` to get all coins (not just of a specific type).

Author: Revised

| `suix_getCoinMetadata` | `StateService.GetCoinInfo` | `coinMetadata` |
| `suix_getOwnedObjects` | `StateService.ListOwnedObjects` | `address.objects` |
| `suix_getDynamicFields` | `StateService.ListDynamicFields` | `owner.dynamicFields` |

> | `suix_getDynamicFieldObject` | `StateService.ListDynamicFields` to find the field, then `LedgerService.GetObject` for the value | `owner.dynamicObjectField` |

Reviewer: The `ListDynamicFields` query is unnecessary in gRPC. The right approach there is to derive the dynamic field's ID locally (from the owner/parent ID and the dynamic field name), and then call `GetObject`.

Author: Revised

| `suix_queryTransactionBlocks` | No direct filtered query. Enumerate finalized transactions through `SubscriptionService.SubscribeCheckpoints`, or fetch known transactions through `LedgerService.GetTransaction`. | `transactions(filter: ...)` |
| `suix_queryEvents` | Read events from transaction data returned by `LedgerService.GetTransaction` or streamed by `SubscriptionService.SubscribeCheckpoints` | `events(filter: ...)` |

> | `sui_subscribeEvent`, `sui_subscribeTransaction` (WebSocket) | `SubscriptionService.SubscribeCheckpoints`, then read events and transactions from each checkpoint | Not applicable (use gRPC streaming) |

Reviewer: In GraphQL you can poll `Query.transactions` or `Query.events` with filters.

Author: Added

| `suix_getReferenceGasPrice` | `LedgerService.GetEpoch` (read `reference_gas_price` from the response) | `epoch.referenceGasPrice` |
| `suix_getStakes`, `suix_getStakesByIds` | No direct gRPC method. Read owned `StakedSui` objects through `StateService.ListOwnedObjects` filtered by type, then fetch full contents through `LedgerService.GetObject`. | Query owned objects of type `StakedSui` through `address.objects(filter: { type: ... })` |

> | `suix_getValidatorsApy` | No direct gRPC method. Read validator-set state through the [TypeScript SDK](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript) or compute APY client-side from validator-set data. | `epoch.validatorSet` |

Reviewer: `Epoch.validatorSet` won't give you APY in GraphQL -- the advice is similar to gRPC that you need to calculate it locally after fetching data from the validator set. There was a GH Issue that asked about this which I replied to:

https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/issues/23832#issuecomment-4437791087

Author: revised

| `sui_dryRunTransactionBlock`, `sui_devInspectTransactionBlock` | `TransactionExecutionService.SimulateTransaction` | `simulateTransaction` |
| `unsafe_paySui`, `unsafe_pay`, `unsafe_payAllSui`, `unsafe_transferSui`, `unsafe_transferObject`, `unsafe_moveCall`, `unsafe_splitCoin`, `unsafe_mergeCoins`, `unsafe_batchTransaction` | Build a [programmable transaction block](/develop/transactions/ptbs/prog-txn-blocks) with the SDK, then execute it through `TransactionExecutionService.ExecuteTransaction` | Build a PTB with the SDK, then submit through `executeTransaction` |
| `sui_getNormalizedMoveModule`, `sui_getNormalizedMoveFunction`, `sui_getNormalizedMoveStruct` | `MovePackageService` | `package`, `module`, `function`, `struct` |

The JSON-RPC `unsafe_*` builder methods do not have a one-to-one replacement on either side. Build transactions with [PTBs](/develop/transactions/ptbs/prog-txn-blocks) using the [TypeScript SDK](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript) or the [Rust SDK](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui-rust-sdk), then submit the resulting bytes through `TransactionExecutionService.ExecuteTransaction`.

## Migration gotchas

### No implicit archival fallback in gRPC

> JSON-RPC sometimes resolved requests for older data through fallback paths that were transparent to the caller. The gRPC API does not do this. A full node only returns data within its retention window. If `LedgerService` returns "not found" for an older transaction, checkpoint, or object, query the [Archival Store](/develop/accessing-data/archival-store) endpoint directly instead. You can reuse the same `LedgerService` methods, but you must point the client at an Archival Service endpoint such as `archive.mainnet.sui.io:443` or your provider's archival URL.

Reviewer: Also GraphQL provides access to the unpruned point lookups without a client-side fallback.

Author: Added

### Object and coin queries behave differently

GraphQL and gRPC expose richer typing for objects and coins than JSON-RPC. A few practical points:

- **Coin selection.** Replace `suix_getCoins` patterns with the GraphQL `address.objects(filter: { type: "0x2::coin::Coin<...>" })` connection, or use `StateService.ListOwnedObjects` on the gRPC side with a `Coin<T>` type filter. For transaction building, prefer [gas smashing](/develop/transaction-payment/gas-smashing) or [address-balance gas payments](/onchain-finance/asset-custody/address-balances/using-address-balances) rather than constructing coin lists by hand.

- **Balances cover both representations.** Read `Balance.totalBalance` to get the sum across coin objects and the address-balance accumulator. Read `Balance.coinBalance` and `Balance.addressBalance` separately to reconcile against your own ledger.

> - **Object versions.** GraphQL supports time-travel queries through `checkpoint { query { ... } }`, which has no JSON-RPC analog. Use it when you need a consistent snapshot across a multi-step read.

Reviewer: The header for this is probably `Consistency` or `Time-travel` or something? There's arguably another bullet which can be called `Object versions` which covers the fact that GraphQL offers `Query.objectVersions`, `IObject.objectVersionsAfter`, `IObject.objectVersionsBefore`, `Query.packageVersions`, etc) which allow you to scrub through the history of an object (and have no JSON-RPC analog).

Author: Added

### Pagination uses typed cursors

JSON-RPC cursors are opaque strings. GraphQL passes cursors through the `after` (or `before`) field on a connection, with the page size in `first` (or `last`). gRPC paging uses fields on the typed request and response messages. Do not try to reuse a JSON-RPC `nextCursor` value in a GraphQL or gRPC request. Fetch a fresh cursor from the new API and persist it as the resume point.

### Retention windows

A full node retains a configurable window of recent data and prunes older history. Your application sees this as "not found" responses. For long-running queries, replays, or audits, plan to fall back to the [Archival Service](/develop/accessing-data/archival-store) for data outside the full node's retention.

> ## Examples for high-traffic paths

Reviewer: Would it make sense to inline the examples here as well, or would that be too cluttered?

Author: We can inline them with expandable components so they're available but don't make the page significantly longer to scroll

Author: Added them as collapsibles
